docs/source/usage.rst, before:

The following are some examples on how to use the ``qad`` package to
train and test quantum models, and reproduce results from the paper. 

Unsupervised quantum kernel machine
===================================

The training and testing of the unsupervised kernel machine is accomplished using the
``train.py`` and ``test.py`` in ``scripts/kernel_machines/``,
respectively (see in the `repo <https://github.com/vbelis/latent-ad-qml/tree/main/scripts>`_). The configuration parameters of the model, e.g., quantum
or classical version, feature map, number of training samples, backend
used for the quantum computation, etc, are defined through the arguments
of the ``train.py`` and ``test.py`` scripts. For instance, to train the
model:

.. code:: python

   python train.py --sig_path /path/to/signal/data --bkg_path /path/to/background/data --test_bkg_path /path/to/test_background/data --unsup --nqubits 8 --feature_map u_dense_encoding --run_type ideal --output_folder quantum_test --nu_param 0.01 --ntrain 600 --quantum

To test the saved model:

.. code:: python

   python test.py --sig_path /path/to/signal/data --bkg_path /path/to/background/data --test_bkg_path /path/to/test_background/data --model trained_qsvms/quantum_test_nu\=0.01_ideal/

For a small scale demo that can be run on a normal personal computer, in a reasonable amount of time (5-10 minutes), consider using `ntrain` at the order of 50 to 200 data points for the `train.py` script, and `ntest` at around 1000 to 10000 data points for the `test.py` script.

For details regarding different arguments of the ``train.py`` and ``test.py`` scripts
see below.

Train
^^^^^
.. autofunction:: scripts.kernel_machines.train.main

Test
^^^^
.. autofunction:: scripts.kernel_machines.test.main


Producing figures
=================

After the unsuperised quantum and classical kernel machines have been
trained and test scores have been saved, one can summarise their
performance with a ROC curve plot. Firstly, following our convention the
test scores are prepared for plotting using
``scripts/kernel_machines/scripts/prepare_plot_scores.py`` (`code <https://github.com/vbelis/latent-ad-qml/blob/docs-reformat/scripts/kernel_machines/prepare_plot_scores.py>`_),
and by running

.. code:: python

   python prepare_plot_scores.py --classical_folder trained_qsvms/c_test_nu\=0.01/ --quantum_folder trained_qsvms/q_test_nu\=0.01_ideal/ --out_path test_plot --name_suffix n<n_test>_k<k_folds>

Then, we load the score values from the saved files using our
convention, e.g. for the case of three different signals, with eight
latent dimensions, 600 training datapoints, 100k testing datapoints, and
k=5 folds

.. code:: python

   read_dir='/path/to/data'
   n_folds = 5
   latent_dim = '8'
   n_samples_train=600
   mass=['35', '35', '15']
   br_na=['NA', '', 'BR'] # narrow (NA) or broad (BR)
   signal_name=['RSGraviton_WW', 'AtoHZ_to_ZZZ', 'RSGraviton_WW']
   ntest = ['100', '100', '100']

   q_loss_qcd=[]; q_loss_sig=[]; c_loss_qcd=[]; c_loss_sig=[]
   for i in range(len(signal_name)):
       #if br_na[i]: 
       with h5py.File(f'{read_dir}/Latent_{latent_dim}_trainsize_{n_samples_train}_{signal_name[i]}'
                      '{mass[i]}{br_na[i]}_n{ntest[i]}k_kfold{n_folds}.h5', 'r') as file:
           q_loss_qcd.append(file['quantum_loss_qcd'][:])
           q_loss_sig.append(file['quantum_loss_sig'][:])
           c_loss_qcd.append(file['classic_loss_qcd'][:])
           c_loss_sig.append(file['classic_loss_sig'][:])

The final ROC plot, as it appears in the paper in Fig. 3, can be
obtained

.. code:: python

   colors = ['forestgreen', '#EC4E20', 'darkorchid']
   legend_signal_names=['Narrow 'r'G $\to$ WW 3.5 TeV', r'A $\to$ HZ $\to$ ZZZ 3.5 TeV', 'Broad 'r'G $\to$ WW 1.5 TeV']
   pl.plot_ROC_kfold_mean(q_loss_qcd, q_loss_sig, c_loss_qcd, c_loss_sig, legend_signal_names, n_folds,\
                   legend_title=r'Anomaly signature', save_dir='../jupyter_plots', pic_id='test',
                   palette=colors, xlabel=r'$TPR$', ylabel=r'$FPR^{-1}$')

Example for the unsupervised kernel machine performance on different
anomalies:

.. raw:: html

    <p align="center">
        <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48251467/220371963-0dbd3ef5-a1db-474d-a976-900a71fd8cc4.png">
    </p>

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. automodule:: qad.plot
   :members:
   :undoc-members:


Expressibility and entanglement capability analysis
===================================================

.. image:: ../appendix_plots.png
   :align: center

The metrics are calculated via sampling the circuit parameters from three different 
distributions as depicted in the legends: the uniform distribution in [0,2π], 
the QCD background data distribution, and the signal (anomaly) scalar boson data 
distribution. (a) The expressibility (Expr) as a function of the 
different circuit architectures. (b) The entanglement capability of the 
data encoding circuit (:math:`\langle \mathrm{Q} \rangle`) as a function of the different 
circuit architectures. (c) The expressibility of the data encoding circuit 
as a function of the number of qubits :math:`(\mathrm{n_q})`. (d) The variance of 
the kernel :math:`\mathrm{Var}_{z, z'}k(z,z')` as a function of the number of qubits, where 
:math:`k(z,z')` is the kernel corresponding to the data encoding circuit , z and z' 
are data feature vectors sampled from the signal or background distributions.

Given a data encoding quantum circuit we can compute its expressibility and entanglement
capability. Additionaly, we can also compute, as function of the
number of qubits, the variance of the quantum kernel that is
constructed from the given quantum circuit. The different properties of the quantum feature map and the
corresponding  quantum kernel can be computed using the script ``compute_expr_ent.py``.
The desired computation can be chosen using the ``argparse`` argument ``compute``.

For instance, to compute the expressibility and entanglement capability of the circuits
discussed in the paper run:

.. code:: bash

   python compute_expr_ent.py --n_shots 10000 --n_exp 20 --out_path test --compute expr_ent_vs_circ

where ``n_shots`` defines the number of fidelity samples to generate per expressibility
and entanglement capability evaluation, ``n_exp`` is the number of evaluations (‘experiments’) 
of the expressibility and entanglement capability needed too estimate the mean and std 
of around the true value. For more details please check the `repo <https://github.com/vbelis/triple_e>`_
of the ``triple_e`` package.

To compute the expressibility as a function of the number of the qubits in a data dependent
setting (i.e. sampling the circuit parameters from a data distribution instead of the
uniform in [0,2π]) run:

.. code:: bash
   
   python compute_expr_ent.py --n_qubits 8 --n_shots 100000 --n_exp 20 --out_path test --compute expr_vs_qubits --data_path dataset1_path dataset2_path dataset3_path --data_dependent
   

.. automodule:: scripts.kernel_machines.compute_expr_ent
   :members:
   :undoc-members:

Commit message:

added data zenodo link in docs

docs/source/usage.rst, after:

The following are some examples on how to use the ``qad`` package to
train and test quantum models, and reproduce results from the paper. 

Unsupervised quantum kernel machine
===================================
The dataset used for training and testing all the quantum machine learning models is 
published in `zenodo <https://zenodo.org/record/7673769>`_.
The training and testing of the unsupervised kernel machine is accomplished using the
``train.py`` and ``test.py`` in ``scripts/kernel_machines/``,
respectively (see in the `repo <https://github.com/vbelis/latent-ad-qml/tree/main/scripts>`_). The configuration parameters of the model, e.g., quantum
or classical version, feature map, number of training samples, backend
used for the quantum computation, etc, are defined through the arguments
of the ``train.py`` and ``test.py`` scripts. For instance, to train the
model:

.. code:: python

   python train.py --sig_path /path/to/signal/data --bkg_path /path/to/background/data --test_bkg_path /path/to/test_background/data --unsup --nqubits 8 --feature_map u_dense_encoding --run_type ideal --output_folder quantum_test --nu_param 0.01 --ntrain 600 --quantum

To test the saved model:

.. code:: python

   python test.py --sig_path /path/to/signal/data --bkg_path /path/to/background/data --test_bkg_path /path/to/test_background/data --model trained_qsvms/quantum_test_nu\=0.01_ideal/

For a small scale demo that can be run on a normal personal computer, in a reasonable amount of time (5-10 minutes), consider using `ntrain` at the order of 50 to 200 data points for the `train.py` script, and `ntest` at around 1000 to 10000 data points for the `test.py` script.

For details regarding different arguments of the ``train.py`` and ``test.py`` scripts
see below.

Train
^^^^^
.. autofunction:: scripts.kernel_machines.train.main

Test
^^^^
.. autofunction:: scripts.kernel_machines.test.main


Producing figures
=================

After the unsuperised quantum and classical kernel machines have been
trained and test scores have been saved, one can summarise their
performance with a ROC curve plot. Firstly, following our convention the
test scores are prepared for plotting using
``scripts/kernel_machines/scripts/prepare_plot_scores.py`` (`code <https://github.com/vbelis/latent-ad-qml/blob/docs-reformat/scripts/kernel_machines/prepare_plot_scores.py>`_),
and by running

.. code:: python

   python prepare_plot_scores.py --classical_folder trained_qsvms/c_test_nu\=0.01/ --quantum_folder trained_qsvms/q_test_nu\=0.01_ideal/ --out_path test_plot --name_suffix n<n_test>_k<k_folds>

Then, we load the score values from the saved files using our
convention, e.g. for the case of three different signals, with eight
latent dimensions, 600 training datapoints, 100k testing datapoints, and
k=5 folds

.. code:: python

   read_dir='/path/to/data'
   n_folds = 5
   latent_dim = '8'
   n_samples_train=600
   mass=['35', '35', '15']
   br_na=['NA', '', 'BR'] # narrow (NA) or broad (BR)
   signal_name=['RSGraviton_WW', 'AtoHZ_to_ZZZ', 'RSGraviton_WW']
   ntest = ['100', '100', '100']

   q_loss_qcd=[]; q_loss_sig=[]; c_loss_qcd=[]; c_loss_sig=[]
   for i in range(len(signal_name)):
       #if br_na[i]: 
       with h5py.File(f'{read_dir}/Latent_{latent_dim}_trainsize_{n_samples_train}_{signal_name[i]}'
                      '{mass[i]}{br_na[i]}_n{ntest[i]}k_kfold{n_folds}.h5', 'r') as file:
           q_loss_qcd.append(file['quantum_loss_qcd'][:])
           q_loss_sig.append(file['quantum_loss_sig'][:])
           c_loss_qcd.append(file['classic_loss_qcd'][:])
           c_loss_sig.append(file['classic_loss_sig'][:])

The final ROC plot, as it appears in the paper in Fig. 3, can be
obtained

.. code:: python

   colors = ['forestgreen', '#EC4E20', 'darkorchid']
   legend_signal_names=['Narrow 'r'G $\to$ WW 3.5 TeV', r'A $\to$ HZ $\to$ ZZZ 3.5 TeV', 'Broad 'r'G $\to$ WW 1.5 TeV']
   pl.plot_ROC_kfold_mean(q_loss_qcd, q_loss_sig, c_loss_qcd, c_loss_sig, legend_signal_names, n_folds,\
                   legend_title=r'Anomaly signature', save_dir='../jupyter_plots', pic_id='test',
                   palette=colors, xlabel=r'$TPR$', ylabel=r'$FPR^{-1}$')

Example for the unsupervised kernel machine performance on different
anomalies:

.. raw:: html

    <p align="center">
        <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48251467/220371963-0dbd3ef5-a1db-474d-a976-900a71fd8cc4.png">
    </p>

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. automodule:: qad.plot
   :members:
   :undoc-members:


Expressibility and entanglement capability analysis
===================================================

.. image:: ../appendix_plots.png
   :align: center

The metrics are calculated via sampling the circuit parameters from three different 
distributions as depicted in the legends: the uniform distribution in [0,2π], 
the QCD background data distribution, and the signal (anomaly) scalar boson data 
distribution. (a) The expressibility (Expr) as a function of the 
different circuit architectures. (b) The entanglement capability of the 
data encoding circuit (:math:`\langle \mathrm{Q} \rangle`) as a function of the different 
circuit architectures. (c) The expressibility of the data encoding circuit 
as a function of the number of qubits :math:`(\mathrm{n_q})`. (d) The variance of 
the kernel :math:`\mathrm{Var}_{z, z'}k(z,z')` as a function of the number of qubits, where 
:math:`k(z,z')` is the kernel corresponding to the data encoding circuit , z and z' 
are data feature vectors sampled from the signal or background distributions.

Given a data encoding quantum circuit we can compute its expressibility and entanglement
capability. Additionaly, we can also compute, as function of the
number of qubits, the variance of the quantum kernel that is
constructed from the given quantum circuit. The different properties of the quantum feature map and the
corresponding  quantum kernel can be computed using the script ``compute_expr_ent.py``.
The desired computation can be chosen using the ``argparse`` argument ``compute``.

For instance, to compute the expressibility and entanglement capability of the circuits
discussed in the paper run:

.. code:: bash

   python compute_expr_ent.py --n_shots 10000 --n_exp 20 --out_path test --compute expr_ent_vs_circ

where ``n_shots`` defines the number of fidelity samples to generate per expressibility
and entanglement capability evaluation, ``n_exp`` is the number of evaluations (‘experiments’) 
of the expressibility and entanglement capability needed too estimate the mean and std 
of around the true value. For more details please check the `repo <https://github.com/vbelis/triple_e>`_
of the ``triple_e`` package.

To compute the expressibility as a function of the number of the qubits in a data dependent
setting (i.e. sampling the circuit parameters from a data distribution instead of the
uniform in [0,2π]) run:

.. code:: bash
   
   python compute_expr_ent.py --n_qubits 8 --n_shots 100000 --n_exp 20 --out_path test --compute expr_vs_qubits --data_path dataset1_path dataset2_path dataset3_path --data_dependent
   

.. automodule:: scripts.kernel_machines.compute_expr_ent
   :members:
   :undoc-members:
