scripts/README.md, before:

# Producing figures
After the unsuperised quantum and classical kernel machines have been trained and test scores have been saved, one can summarise their performance with a ROC curve plot. Firstly, following our convention the test scores are prepared for plotting using [`scripts/kernel_machines/scripts/prepare_plot_scores.py`](https://github.com/vbelis/latent-ad-qml/blob/docs-reformat/scripts/kernel_machines/prepare_plot_scores.py), and by running
```python
python prepare_plot_scores.py --classical_folder trained_qsvms/c_test_nu\=0.01/ --quantum_folder trained_qsvms/q_test_nu\=0.01_ideal/ --out_path test_plot --name_suffix n<n_test>_k<k_folds>
```

Then, we load the score values from the saved files using our convention, e.g. for the case of three different signals, with eight latent dimensions,  600 training datapoints, 100k testing datapoints, and k=5 folds

```python
read_dir='/path/to/data'
n_folds = 5
latent_dim = '8'
n_samples_train=600
mass=['35', '35', '15']
br_na=['NA', '', 'BR'] # narrow (NA) or broad (BR)
signal_name=['RSGraviton_WW', 'AtoHZ_to_ZZZ', 'RSGraviton_WW']
ntest = ['100', '100', '100']

q_loss_qcd=[]; q_loss_sig=[]; c_loss_qcd=[]; c_loss_sig=[]
for i in range(len(signal_name)):
    #if br_na[i]: 
    with h5py.File(f'{read_dir}/Latent_{latent_dim}_trainsize_{n_samples_train}_{signal_name[i]}'
                   '{mass[i]}{br_na[i]}_n{ntest[i]}k_kfold{n_folds}.h5', 'r') as file:
        q_loss_qcd.append(file['quantum_loss_qcd'][:])
        q_loss_sig.append(file['quantum_loss_sig'][:])
        c_loss_qcd.append(file['classic_loss_qcd'][:])
        c_loss_sig.append(file['classic_loss_sig'][:])
```

The final ROC plot, as it appears in the paper in Fig. 3, can be obtained 

```python
colors = ['forestgreen', '#EC4E20', 'darkorchid']
legend_signal_names=['Narrow 'r'G $\to$ WW 3.5 TeV', r'A $\to$ HZ $\to$ ZZZ 3.5 TeV', 'Broad 'r'G $\to$ WW 1.5 TeV']
pl.plot_ROC_kfold_mean(q_loss_qcd, q_loss_sig, c_loss_qcd, c_loss_sig, legend_signal_names, n_folds,\
                legend_title=r'Anomaly signature', save_dir='../jupyter_plots', pic_id='test',
                palette=colors, xlabel=r'$TPR$', ylabel=r'$FPR^{-1}$')
```
Example for the unsupervised kernel machine performance on different anomalies:
<p align="center">
<img width="550" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48251467/220371963-0dbd3ef5-a1db-474d-a976-900a71fd8cc4.png">
</p>

Commit message:

Add examples for train and test kernel machines

scripts/README.md, after:

# Usage
The following are some examples on how to use the `qad` package to train and test quantum models, and reproduce results from the paper.
## Training the unsupervised quantum kernel machine
The training and testing of the unsupervised kernel machine is done using the `train.py` and `test.py` in `scripts/kernel_machines/`, respectively.  The configuration parameters of the model, e.g., quantum or classical version, feature map, number of training samples, backend used for the quantum computation, etc, are defined through the arguments of the `train.py` and `test.py` scripts. 
For instance, to train the model:
```python
python train.py --sig_path /path/to/signal/data --bkg_path /path/to/background/data --test_bkg_path /path/to/test_background/data --unsup --nqubits 8 --feature_map u_dense_encoding --run_type ideal --output_folder quantum_test --nu_param 0.01 --ntrain 600 --quantum
```
For details regarding different arguments check the documentation: **TODO READTHEDOCS**.
To test the same model:
```python
python test.py --sig_path /path/to/signal/data --bkg_path /path/to/background/data --test_bkg_path /path/to/test_background/data --model trained_qsvms/quantum_test_nu\=0.01_ideal/
```

# Producing figures
After the unsuperised quantum and classical kernel machines have been trained and test scores have been saved, one can summarise their performance with a ROC curve plot. Firstly, following our convention the test scores are prepared for plotting using [`scripts/kernel_machines/scripts/prepare_plot_scores.py`](https://github.com/vbelis/latent-ad-qml/blob/docs-reformat/scripts/kernel_machines/prepare_plot_scores.py), and by running
```python
python prepare_plot_scores.py --classical_folder trained_qsvms/c_test_nu\=0.01/ --quantum_folder trained_qsvms/q_test_nu\=0.01_ideal/ --out_path test_plot --name_suffix n<n_test>_k<k_folds>
```

Then, we load the score values from the saved files using our convention, e.g. for the case of three different signals, with eight latent dimensions,  600 training datapoints, 100k testing datapoints, and k=5 folds

```python
read_dir='/path/to/data'
n_folds = 5
latent_dim = '8'
n_samples_train=600
mass=['35', '35', '15']
br_na=['NA', '', 'BR'] # narrow (NA) or broad (BR)
signal_name=['RSGraviton_WW', 'AtoHZ_to_ZZZ', 'RSGraviton_WW']
ntest = ['100', '100', '100']

q_loss_qcd=[]; q_loss_sig=[]; c_loss_qcd=[]; c_loss_sig=[]
for i in range(len(signal_name)):
    #if br_na[i]: 
    with h5py.File(f'{read_dir}/Latent_{latent_dim}_trainsize_{n_samples_train}_{signal_name[i]}'
                   '{mass[i]}{br_na[i]}_n{ntest[i]}k_kfold{n_folds}.h5', 'r') as file:
        q_loss_qcd.append(file['quantum_loss_qcd'][:])
        q_loss_sig.append(file['quantum_loss_sig'][:])
        c_loss_qcd.append(file['classic_loss_qcd'][:])
        c_loss_sig.append(file['classic_loss_sig'][:])
```

The final ROC plot, as it appears in the paper in Fig. 3, can be obtained 

```python
colors = ['forestgreen', '#EC4E20', 'darkorchid']
legend_signal_names=['Narrow 'r'G $\to$ WW 3.5 TeV', r'A $\to$ HZ $\to$ ZZZ 3.5 TeV', 'Broad 'r'G $\to$ WW 1.5 TeV']
pl.plot_ROC_kfold_mean(q_loss_qcd, q_loss_sig, c_loss_qcd, c_loss_sig, legend_signal_names, n_folds,\
                legend_title=r'Anomaly signature', save_dir='../jupyter_plots', pic_id='test',
                palette=colors, xlabel=r'$TPR$', ylabel=r'$FPR^{-1}$')
```
Example for the unsupervised kernel machine performance on different anomalies:
<p align="center">
<img width="550" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/48251467/220371963-0dbd3ef5-a1db-474d-a976-900a71fd8cc4.png">
</p>
